>> Kent C. Dodds: All right,
let's write our testing framework.
So if I come down here,
I'll just write it above the expect here.
We'll have a function called test
that accepts a title and a callback.
And because we wanna be able to run all
of our tests we're gonna put this in
a tri-catch so that our code can continue
even if the call-back throws an error.
So we'll call the call-back, and
then we'll just log the error.
We'll say console error.
And with that I want to do a little
bit more with the title, but
we could package up our stuff into little
tests to start, so we'll say test.
Sum adds numbers.
We'll move these into here.
And then test subtract, subtracts numbers?
>> Kent C. Dodds: This is so
not contrived.
And then we'll, I'm actually gonna
scope all these variables down.
I like to be able to
look right at the test.
I know exactly what's
going on inside of that
test without having to look at
where variables were declared and
what values those things might
have at this point in time.
So keeping things isolated
within that call-back is
something that I try to accomplish.
Okay, so
now if I run node 3.todo we shouldn't
have anything different from before.
So, [COUGH] let's go ahead and
make our error message
a little bit more useful.
But, actually, sorry, one difference
we do have from before is if I
were to break this subtract module,
>> Kent C. Dodds: Then I'm
gonna get both errors.
So that's good.
Now we can run all of our
tests instead of just one.
So hooray, hooray.
But let's go ahead and we'll,
if it's not broken then we don't see that,
it's passing.
So let's go ahead and
a console.log after the callback,
and if it's passing
then it's gonna have a,
we'll add a little check mark
that says title right next to it.
If it's not, then we'll add a X and
I got that in
my clipboard here.
>> Kent C. Dodds: And
with that we can run our test again, and
we'll see that sum apparently fails and
subtract passes.
And that's our first testing framework.
So this is a pretty simple framework.
It's not really much of a framework
at all honestly but it encapsulates
the basic ideas behind testing
assertion libraries and frameworks.
So the key takeaways here
are a test is something
that throws an error if there is a bug,
and
a good one is one that helps you identify
where that bug lives and how to fix it.
A testing framework allows
you to have many tests and
encapsulate those and
provide even better error messages.
The testing framework we're going
to be using today is Jest, and
its API is exactly like this.
And so you don't have to do this one, but
if you look at 4.js we just
remove all of our custom code and
leave everything else as it was,
and that allows us to use Jest.
So this is what a real testing
framework will do for you.
It gives you a summary of the pass and
fail status of the test.
It will give you a really
nice error message here.
The stack trace before was this giant
huge thing where most of it wasn't
relevant to our test.
But the stack trace now will just show us
the stuff that is actually relevant for
the test.
If the failure actually happened
within our source code,
like we're trying to access a property or
something.
Then this becomes really, really useful
because it'll point directly to where that
failure occurred and
give us this code frame around that.
So, this isn't an advertisement for
Jest even though it kind
of is because it's amazing.
But this is more an idea of when you're
trying to pick a testing framework or
when you're writing your test.
You should think a lot about the error
message that people are going to see when
things go wrong.
And so, that's why, with Jest
creating custom expect to matters,
so custom functions that you can call and
you can extend.
Expect to have some of those to have
a little bit nicer error message,
more specific to what you're trying
to write, that can be really useful.
But the error message in tests is
really paramount to being about to fix
bugs quickly and know what the problem
is right away so you can fix it.
So that is what a test is.
Did anybody expect to write
a testing framework this morning?
[LAUGH] It's a really simple one, but
[COUGH] that's really what
a testing framework is all about.
Hopefully that, in some small way
demystified testing for you a little bit.